
Page Title: GIN Interview: Saidi Mwema, former Inspector General, Tanzanian Police

Page URL: https://globalinitiative.net/analysis/gin-interview-saidi-mwema-former-inspector-general-tanzanian-police/

Page Summary:
To what extent are law and order institutions in Africa equipped to deal with transnational organized crime?
Fragile states – and governments – are said to be more vulnerable to transnational organized crime.
This allows transnational organized crime to operate in a variety of ways, by exploiting transportation, commercial enterprise and communication structures, for example.
To what extent are countries on the African continent co-operating in the fight against transnational organized crime and how can their efforts be improved?
What, in your view, is the purpose of the Global Initiative against Transnational Organized Crime and how can its impact be strengthened?



Page Title: Tanzania: Stop the on-going mutilation of girls and women in the Tarime district

Page URL: https://www.equalitynow.org/tanzania_stop_the_on_going_mutilation_of_girls_and_women_in_the_tarime_district?locale=es

Page Summary:
Send letters to:His Excellency Jakaya Mrisho KikwetePresident of the United Republic of TanzaniaOffice of the PresidentP.O Box 9120Dar-es-Salaam, TANZANIATel Office: +255 22 211 6679 or +255 211 0972 or +255 22 211 6538Personal Mobile: +255 754 777 777Fax: +255 22 212 8585 or +255 22 211 3425Email: [email protected]Hon.
Box 3021Dar- es-Salaam, TANZANIATel: +255 22 211 6798, +255 22 232 4904Hon.
Office: +255 22 211 3461Personal mobile: +255 754 785 557Fax: +255 22 213 6556Email: [email protected], or [email protected], or [email protected]Hon.
Sophia Mathayo SimbaMinister of Community Development, Gender and Children's AffairsPO Box 3448Dar-es-Salaam, TANZANIATel: +255 22 213 2057 +255 22 211 5074; +255 22 211 5635Fax: +255 22 213 3647Email: [email protected]Hon.
Box 2218Dar-es-Salaam, TANZANIATel: +255 22 211 7108, +255 22 213 36322, +255 22 211 2034; +255 22 211 7353Fax: +255 22 212 2617, +255 22 213 9675Email: [email protected]; [email protected]Mr. Z. MunisiAssistant Superintendent of PolicePolice headquarters- Gender DepartmentFax: + 255 22 213 1174Dar-es-Salaam, TANZANIA



Page Title: Police Reform in Tanzania from 2006 to 2009

Page URL: https://www.centreforpublicimpact.org/case-study/police-reform-tanzania-2006-2009

Page Summary:
[2]The initiative The Tanzanian Police launched a comprehensive reform programme between 2006 and 2009.
[9] Since its conclusion in 2009, the initiative has served as the basis for the Tanzania Police Force Reform Programme for 2010/11 through to 2014/15.
[20] In addition, the wider population was involved in the design stage of the reform programme.
Strength of evidence Between 2006 and 2008, the group of experts appointed by Inspector General Mwema carefully collected evidence for the police reform programme.
However, there was no provision for extensive funding to implement the high priority sections of the 2006-2009 reform programme.



Page Title: Journalist beaten by unknown assailants in Tanzania

Page URL: https://www.refworld.org/docid/513dd201c.html

Page Summary:
Journalist beaten by unknown assailants in TanzaniaPublisher Committee to Protect Journalists Publication Date 7 March 2013 Cite as Committee to Protect Journalists, Journalist beaten by unknown assailants in Tanzania, 7 March 2013, available at: https://www.refworld.org/docid/513dd201c.html [accessed 5 October 2021] Disclaimer This is not a UNHCR publication.
Nairobi, March 7, 2013 – Authorities in Tanzania must immediately investigate a vicious attack on a veteran journalist in Dar es Salaam, the capital, on Tuesday night, the Committee to Protect Journalists said today.
Kibanda told local journalists that one of the assailants had wanted to shoot him, but that the other two had discouraged him, the reports said.
The Tanzania Editors Forum is holding a meeting on Friday to conduct an investigation into the attack and determine how to help the editor.
Copyright notice: © Committee to Protect Journalists.



Page Title: Werema, Mwema sued over arrest of Burundi politician

Page URL: https://www.theeastafrican.co.ke/tea/news/east-africa/werema-mwema-sued-over-arrest-of-burundi-politician--1306818

Page Summary:
Three confidential letters written by Burundi to help track and arrest Alexis Sinduhije have caused uproar after two top Tanzanian law enforcement officials were sued over the saga surrounding the Bujumbura politician.
The development comes after the Burundi government said last week that it was Tanzanian security officers who arrested and detained the Burundi opposition leader when he entered Tanzania and that it had not asked for his arrest.
But three letters seen by The EastAfrican show Burundi had requested Tanzania help arrest, detain and hand over Sinduhije, the leader of Movement for Solidarity and Development.
Sinduhije had arrived in the country from Kampala, Uganda to seek audience with another Burundian opposition leader, Leonard Nyangoma.
Mr Mtikila said that the arrest is part of a bid to silence the opposition in Burundi and other East Africans opposed to their governments.



Page Title: Tanzanian authorities suspend Raia Mwema newspaper for 1 month

Page URL: https://cpj.org/2021/09/tanzanian-authorities-suspend-raia-mwema-newspaper-for-1-month/

Page Summary:
Share this: TwitterFacebookWhatsAppLinkedInEmailTelegramNairobi, September 15, 2021 — Tanzanian authorities should immediately rescind the suspension of the Raia Mwema newspaper and cease banning media outlets, the Committee to Protect Journalists said today.
In a statement released on September 5, Tanzanian government spokesperson Gerson Msigwa announced a month-long suspension of the privately owned newspaper, beginning the following day.
In that statement, he accused Raia Mwema of repeatedly breaking the law and violating professional journalism standards through misleading reporting and incitement.
However, last month her government also suspended Uhuru, a newspaper owned by the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi party, for two weeks, as CPJ documented at the time.
Raia Mwema also asked why the party itself did not file a complaint.



Page Title: Miscellaneous Criminal Application 60 of 2017

Page URL: http://kenyalaw.org/caselaw/cases/view/189938

Page Summary:
The mandatory nature deprives the Courts of their legitimate jurisdiction to exercise discretion not to impose the death sentence in appropriate cases.
[50] We consider Reyes and Woodson persuasive on the necessity of mitigation before imposing a death sentence for murder.
Such differential culpability can be addressed in Kenya by allowing judicial discretion when considering whether or not to impose a death sentence.
Although the Muruatetu’s case specifically dealt with the death sentence for murder, the decision broadly considered the constitutionality of the death sentence in general.
I therefore allow this petition/application, quash the death sentence imposed on the Applicant in Machakos High Court Criminal Case No.



Page Title: Civil Case 70 of 2002

Page URL: http://kenyalaw.org/caselaw/cases/view/73663/

Page Summary:
However, he hastened to add that where a party defies a court order, the court has jurisdiction to issue the warrant of arrest.
The Civil Procedure Act is an Act of Parliament which provides for procedure in Civil Courts.
In my view, Article 11 of the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights cannot rank pari passu with the Constitution.
Nor, for that matter, can it render Section 40 unconstitutional.
Even if he is not committed to a civil jail, the judgment-creditor can have reasonable recourse to alternative modes of execution.



Page Title: Mwema to quit in December

Page URL: https://www.thecitizen.co.tz/tanzania/news/mwema-to-quit-in-december-2494464

Page Summary:
Inspector General of Police (IGP) Said Mwema, 60, will step down in December, we can authoritatively report.
When he finally quits, the curtains will fall on an illustrious career spanning 30 years, during which Mr Mwema rose from a 22-year-old constable in 1976 to the apex of the police hierarchy.
Given his relatively good performance as IGP, those close to the presidency felt that Mr Mwema would go the distance with Mr Kikwete, whose second and final term ends in 2015.
Mr Mwema was unavailable for comment on these accusations.
Both Mr Mwema and Mr Manumba were 53 when they were first appointed in March 2006.



Page Title: DR Congo: President Tshisekedi names new prime minister

Page URL: https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2019/5/20/dr-congo-president-tshisekedi-names-new-prime-minister

Page Summary:
Sylvestre Ilunga Ilukamba appointed under deal between Tshisekedi and predecessor Joseph Kabila, spokesperson says.
President Felix Tshisekedi has named Sylvestre Ilunga Ilukamba as the new prime minister of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).
He also served as finance minister under former President Mobutu Sese Seko, who for more than three decades headed a corrupt and dysfunctional administration.
The DRC’s constitution dictates that the prime minister must come from the majority bloc in parliament, while the president traditionally makes the final decision on who will fill the post.
Tshisekedi has pardoned 700 prisoners including several political opponents of Kabila since coming to power.



Page Title: Police Constable Cosmas Mwema arrested for extorting money from Bars every Friday

Page URL: https://www.bana.co.ke/2019/07/police-constable-cosmas-mwema-arrested.html

Page Summary:
Nyayo Police station.
PHOTO | SGPolice Constable Cosmas Mwema of Nyayo Police Post was Yesterday arrested on allegations of EXTORTING money from Bars and Wines & Spirit Shops in Langata every Friday.
According to the businessmen around the area, the said constable has been extorting money from other businesses but Fridays he concentrates on Liquor joints.
"Any Bar operator who failed to give the money was threatened with immediate arrest."
The rogue police officer was arrested on Friday and to be arraigned in court on Monday.



Page Title: Tanzania

Page URL: https://2009-2017.state.gov/j/drl/rls/hrrpt/2006/78761.htm

Page Summary:
The United Republic of Tanzania, with a population of approximately 37 million, is a multi-party republic consisting of the mainland and the Zanzibar archipelago.
For example, on May 8, the Tanzania Red Cross Society visited Segerea Prison in Dar es Salaam.
The majority of returns were voluntary; however, some refugees returned under the perceived threat of refoulement or restrictions on their activities in Tanzania.
NGOs reported that most allegations of corruption involved the Tanzania Revenue Authority, local government officials, licensing authorities, hospital workers, and the media.
Active domestic human rights NGOs included the Center for Human Rights Promotion, the Legal and Human Rights Centre, Tanzania Media Women's Association, and Tanzania Women Lawyers' Association.



Page Title: Cable: 06DARESSALAAM696

Page URL: https://wikileaks.org/plusd/cables/06DARESSALAAM696_a.html

Page Summary:
12958: N/A TAGS: PGOV, PREL, PHUM, ECON, EAID, TZ SUBJECT: TANZANIA: ANTI-CORRUPTION DRIVE MARKS KIKWETE'S FIRST 120 DAYS IN OFFICE REF: A. DAR ES SALAAM 0498 B. DAR ES SALAAM 0298 Summary -------- 1.
Public Corruption Bureau Given "Teeth" ------------------------------------- 3.
Allegations of corruption at all levels of the DAR ES SAL 00000696 002 OF 004 GOT have persisted for years.
(U) In a district level meeting in Kilimanjaro district on April 5, President Kikwete reiterated that the "leading public enemy" is graft.
In a high-profile January 2006 case, fifteen Mainland police officers were accused of the murder of four Dar es Salaam gemstone dealers.



Page Title: Threats to Independent Media and Civil Society in Tanzania

Page URL: https://www.hrw.org/report/2019/10/28/long-i-am-quiet-i-am-safe/threats-independent-media-and-civil-society-tanzania

Page Summary:
Interviewees were selected from a cross-section of civil society, faith-based organizations, government officials, and the media through recommendations from Tanzanian civil society organizations.
Both media and civil society play a critical role in promoting and advancing human rights in Tanzania.
For him CSOs are his enemies, especially the human rights organizations, because when he goes contrary to the human rights principles, we normally tell him.
Wakabi was planning to attend a human rights event organized by the Tanzania Human Rights Defenders Coalition where CIPESA was set to receive an award for its work on protecting human rights online.
[226]The 2016 Media Services Act regulates the media industry and journalism profession, giving government wide powers to censor the media and limit independent journalism.



Page Title: Turkey donates van for identifying criminals

Page URL: http://www.ibn-tv.co.tz/2013/08/turkey-donates-van-for-identifying-criminals/

Page Summary:
Turkey has donated a special van to the Tanzania Police Force for simplifying investigation of crime incidents on the spot.
“The donated van is fitted with investigation equipment enabling investigators to gather some crucial pieces of information on the spot,” he said.
He said Turkey and Tanzania have signed several cooperation agreements, a sign of friendship between the two countries.
“The knowledge that Tanzanian police officers obtained from Turkey will help to increase expertise in investigations,” the top ministerial executive noted.
“Turkey helped our officers by demonstrating updated techniques of investigation and how they handle the investigation process using improved equipment,” she elaborated.



Page Title: 2008 Country Reports on Human Rights Practices - Tanzania

Page URL: https://www.refworld.org/docid/49a8f14bd7.html

Page Summary:
2008 Country Reports on Human Rights Practices - TanzaniaPublisher United States Department of State Author Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor Publication Date 25 February 2009 Cite as United States Department of State, 2008 Country Reports on Human Rights Practices - Tanzania, 25 February 2009, available at: https://www.refworld.org/docid/49a8f14bd7.html [accessed 5 October 2021] Disclaimer This is not a UNHCR publication.
Governmental Attitude Regarding International and Nongovernmental Investigation of Alleged Violations of Human RightsA wide variety of domestic and international human rights groups generally operated without government restriction, investigating and publishing their findings on human rights cases.
Active domestic human rights NGOs included Tanzania Gender Networking Programme, Haki Elimu, the Center for Human Rights Promotion, the Legal and Human Rights Centre, Tanzania Media Women's Association, Action on Disability and Development, Tanzania Albino Society, and the Tanzania Women Lawyers' Association.
The Zanzibar labor law requires a union with 50 or more members to be registered and sets literacy standards for trade union officers.
The Ministry of Labor remained responsible for enforcement of labor laws, together with the Commission for Mediation and Arbitration and the labor court.



Page Title: Four sentenced to death by hanging by Tanzania High Court for police chief murder

Page URL: https://www.thecitizen.co.tz/tanzania/news/four-sentenced-to-death-by-hanging-by-tanzania-high-court-for-police-chief-murder-2696824

Page Summary:
The High Court of Tanzania has today November 12, sentenced four people to death by hanging after they were convicted of murdering former Mwanza Regional Police Commander (RPC), Mr Liberatus Barlow.
Assistant Commissioner of Police Liberatus Barlow was killed on October 13, 2012 at Kitangiri, Ilemela District in Mwanza City.
The gruesome murder saw the then Inspector General of Police Saidi Mwema vowing to take thorough investigations on the matter and bring the culprits to book.
The four convicts, along with three others were first taken to court on October 31.
Delivering the judgment at the High Court in Mwanza today, Judge Sirialus Matupa said the the court was convinced beyond any reasonable doubt that Muganyizi Michael, Magige Mwita, Abdallah Petro and Abdulrahaman Ismail had indeed taken part in murdering the former police chief.



Page Title: Criminal Appeal 210 of 2011

Page URL: https://www.cases.sheriahub.com/case/a62f6b8792/

Page Summary:
That PW2 who was a passenger in the motor vehicle stated that motor vehicle was at a high speed of about 180 KMPH when motor vehicle had a tyre burst .
The motor vehicle had no pre accident defect but motor vehicle obtained extensive damage after the accident.
The impact also caused the passengers to be thrown out of the motor vehicle and they received fatal injuries.
I have also seen the sketch plan and after the tyre burst, the motor vehicle skidded for about 50 metres.
The impact would not have been so high as to cause the passengers to be thrown out of the motor vehicle.



Page Title: Submission by Human Rights Watch to the UN Human Rights Committee in Advance of its Adoption of the List of Issues for Tanzania’s Fifth Reporting Cycle

Page URL: https://www.hrw.org/news/2021/02/18/submission-human-rights-watch-un-human-rights-committee-advance-its-adoption-list

Page Summary:
This document provides an overview of Human Rights Watch’s observations and questions to Tanzania in advance of the upcoming pre-sessional review of Tanzania by the UN Human Rights Committee (“the Committee”).
The concerns described below derive from Human Rights Watch’s ongoing research on Tanzania since the last periodic review in 2009.
[23] One of the journalists told Human Rights Watch that they were forced to kneel at gunpoint when they were arrested.
[35]In December 2016, Tanzania, for the first time known to Human Rights Watch, began subjecting people accused of homosexuality to forced anal examinations.
[48]In 2019, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights called Tanzania’s policy “shocking,” while the African Commission special rapporteur on the rights of women in Africa and the African Committee of Experts on the Rights and Welfare of the Child have expressed concern and said the Tanzanian government should fulfil its human rights obligations.



Page Title: Tanzania suspends private newspaper over breach of professional ethics

Page URL: https://www.monitor.co.ug/uganda/news/tanzania-suspends-private-newspaper-over-breach-of-professional-ethics-3540378

Page Summary:
By Xinhua More by this AuthorThe government of Tanzania on Sunday suspended publication license of a weekly private-owned newspaper for one month starting Monday over what it described as breach of professional ethics.
"I have suspended publication license of Raia Mwema newspaper for 30 days from September 6 according to powers entrusted on me," said Gerson Msigwa, the government's chief spokesperson.
Raia Mwema, translated into English as Good Citizen, is a Kiswahili weekly published in the commercial capital Dar es Salaam.
Msigwa said in a statement that the decision to suspend publication of the newspaper has been made after it was established that the paper has been writing articles without observing professional ethics.
"Some of the articles published by the newspaper can incite members of the public to hate the government," the spokesperson said in the statement.



Page Title: 6 honoured for fighting organised crime

Page URL: https://www.thecitizen.co.tz/tanzania/news/6-honoured-for-fighting-organised-crime-2561528

Page Summary:
Six top police officers have been honoured for their contribution in maintaining safety and peace in Southern Africa.
Inspector General of Police Ernest Mangu, said Mr Mwema was awarded for his immense contribution to SARPCCO, which he once chaired.
Mr Nzowa was awarded for his relentless war on drugs.
According to the IGP, Mr Nzowa was among top police officers who waged a fierce war against drug trafficking in the region.
Mr Mwema said he was ready to continue contributing in peace and security operations whenever his assistance was needed.



Page Title: Criminal Appeal 67 of 2015

Page URL: http://kenyalaw.org/caselaw/cases/view/127378

Page Summary:
67 OF 2015MUASYA MWANIA ALIAS JUNIOR.............................APPELLANTVERSUSREPUBLIC……………………………………………...……..RESPONDENT(Being an appeal from the original conviction and sentence in Mutomo Senior Resident Magistrate’s Court Criminal Case No.
Being aggrieved by the decision of the court the Appellant appealed on grounds that:The charge was defective.
There was variance between particulars of the offence and evidence adduced by PW1 in respect of the amount of money stolen.
When put on his defence the Appellant stated that on the 20th March, 2014 he spent the whole day at Kimachi Petrol Station where he was doing some casual work of installing a Petrol Tank.
In his evidence PW1 stated that as he walked home he saw Junior a person known to him behind him.



Page Title: Mwema Advocates

Page URL: https://www.devex.com/organizations/mwema-advocates-72598

Page Summary:
Mwema AdvocatesSaid A.Mwema Advocates trading as Mwema Advocates is dedicated to help clients in broad range of legal issues, including but not limited to Commercial and Intellectual Property Law.
With a global network of established information resources, partnership with official registration centres, agencies and with what is to be the most comprehensive currently growing business database, taking advantage of technology coupled with a resilient and dedicated team combined with over 40 years of experience in the field, they offer you a full range of uniquely structured legal services to protect your business and your brand.
Vision Protecting freedom by pursuing justice Mission To provide legal services that helps to meet the needs of the court, the client and the society.
Values They pride themselves for complete: - Professionalism - Intergrity - Confidentiality - Legal Compliance - Trustworthiness - Reliability - Affordability and - Timeliness Target - The Government and its Institutions - Private Companies - International investors looking to partner with local companies - Individual Clients Areas of Practice - Commercial Law - Intellectual Property - Pro Bono Legal servicesSee more



Page Title: Tanzania civil society cite law abuse in paper ban

Page URL: https://www.theeastafrican.co.ke/tea/news/east-africa/tanzania-civil-society-cite-law-abuse-in-paper-ban-3546464

Page Summary:
Responding to questions on Whatsapp by The EastAfrican, government spokesman Gerson Msigwa, said, “Press freedom is not absolute and not above the law.
Her excellency President Samia Suluhu’s promise to deliver press freedom is real, trusted and well exercised.
The EACJ ruled that 23 provisions in Tanzania’s 2016 Media Services Act violated the EAC Treaty in infringing the right to freedom of expression.
Press Freedom continues to receive lip service from EAC partner states Uganda, Burundi, South Sudan and Kenya.
As Kenya prepares for elections in 2022, there have been reports of some politicians issuing threats to journalists.



Page Title: User Registration

Page URL: https://jsds.judiciary.go.tz/register

Page Summary:
Advocates FIN & LAW Baistar Advocates DIEU FOURNIRA LEGAL (DFL) Mariam Law Chambers (MLC) Arbor Law Chambers Ventrix Law Attorneys Kobin Attorneys Law Associates (Advocates) Trinity Coast Attorneys Kuboja Advocate TANSCAR Attorneys Legis Attorneys IURIS PERITIS Ideal Chambers Advocates Legal Solution & Co.
Advocates Jubilee Attorneys Mnzava and Company Advocates Lawfront Advocates Rainbow Attorneys NW Law Associates (Advocates) Brave Hill Attorneys EA Attorneys Prolex Attorneys Octavian and Company Advocates FK LAW CHAMBERS Isale Consultants & Co.
Advocates Maika Attorneys AK Law Chambers Wima Law Consultant (Advocates) SSAB Attorneys Masalu Law Attorneys Ijani & Co.
Advocates SVA Ledgal Wima Law Consultants Advocates EBENEZER LAW CHAMBERS ARARAT ATTORNEYS Ecdicus Attorneys Greenwich Law Attorneys Che Luzinga Law Attorneys Laiton Advocates MERICK LAW ATTORNEYS Rukamilwa & Co.
Advocates Lakezone Attorney's Simbangwilimi & Associates Advocates RRM Attorneys Malaika Attorneys Mofel Advocates & Associates Bushele & Co.



Page Title: Assist harassed widow, IGP Said Mwema directs

Page URL: https://bongo5.com/assist-harassed-widow-igp-said-mwema-directs-04-2007/

Page Summary:
In a March 23, 2007 letter with reference number C.13/100/VOL.III/71, the IGP states that the widow charges that her in-laws have forged documents in an attempt to acquire her late husbands estate.
Lamuwalla is the widow of Taibali Anverali Lamuwalla, an Arusha businessman who died in a suspicious road accident in 1995.
It is also alleged that the in-law, being a brother to Shahins late managing director Taibali, found it very easy taking over the company after the latter 1995 accident death.
As a result, the widow was has literally been at the crafty in-law`s mercy for since over the firms ownership.
She said unidentified people have been keeping watch over the operations of her late husband`s property, including the Arusha branch of Shahin`s, and have been tailing her wherever she goes.



Page Title: Driver of first Coronavirus case in Tanzania identified as hotel is quarantined

Page URL: https://www.thecitizen.co.tz/tanzania/news/driver-of-first-coronavirus-case-in-tanzania-identified-as-hotel-is-quarantined--2705720

Page Summary:
His movements reveal a complex circle and authorities say they are working around the clock to get all those who were in contact with the driver.
Temi Valley Hotel, a hotel where Tanzania’s first case of Coronavirus went into self isolation has been quarantined with no visitors allowed to go in or out of the premises.
Speaking to journalists the Arusha Regional Commissioner Mrisho Gambo told reporters that all workers and guest were not allowed to leave the hotel.
Mr Gambo also added that they have identified the driver who drove the 46-year-old woman from the Kilimanjaro International Airport to Arusha.
Advertisement“We have dispatched a team of experts to Karatu who will take samples from the children’s home,” said Mr Gambo.



Page Title: Home Affairs suspends five firefighters over graft, theft

Page URL: https://www.thecitizen.co.tz/tanzania/news/home-affairs-suspends-five-firefighters-over-graft-theft-2493054

Page Summary:
Five firemen have been arrested over theft and forgery of documents within the Fire and Rescue Brigade.
“They have collected various payments by using forged receipts of Fire and Rescue Brigade,” Dr Nchimbi noted.
The accused included assistant inspector Joseph Mwasabeja, corporal Hashim Kapamba, corporal Boniface Mbele, sergeant major Dankan Mwakajinga and corporal Kenned Kipali.
Dr Nchimbi said apart from sending them to court, they will be also suspended from their jobs.
For his part, Vice President Mohamed Ghalib Bilal, who honoured the event, rebuked politicians who undermine the works of police force.



Page Title: Tanzania Civil Society Cite Law Abuse in Paper Ban

Page URL: https://allafrica.com/stories/202109130057.html

Page Summary:
Tanzania has denied its media laws are oppressive following the second suspension of a newspaper in one month.
Responding to questions on Whatsapp by The EastAfrican, government spokesman Gerson Msigwa, said, "Press freedom is not absolute and not above the law.
Section 50 of the Media Services Act criminalises the publishing of information or a statement which, among other things, is "maliciously or fraudulently fabricated" or is "knowingly to be false or without reasonable grounds for believing it to be true."
The EACJ ruled that 23 provisions in Tanzania's 2016 Media Services Act violated the EAC Treaty in infringing the right to freedom of expression.
Close Sign up for free AllAfrica Newsletters Get the latest in African news delivered straight to your inbox Top Headlines Tanzania Media NGO By submitting above, you agree to our privacy policy.



Page Title: Civil Case 580 of 2009

Page URL: http://kenyalaw.org/caselaw/cases/view/122191

Page Summary:
REPUBLIC OF KENYAIN THE HIGH COURT OF KENYA AT NAIROBIMILIMANI HIGH COURTCOMMERCIAL & ADMIRALTY DIVISIONSCIVIL CASE NO 580 OF 2009SAMEER AFRICA LTD……..……………………………………PLAINTIFFVERSUSKEHAR ENTERPRISES LIMITED……………………………… DEFENDANTJUDGEMENT1.
Alternatively and without prejudice the Defendant avers that it duly paid for tires and tubes it purchased from the Plaintiff.
The Plaintiff filed list and bundle of documents dated 9.3.2011 and also witness statement signed by AphiudKariuki the Plaintiff Credit Manager.
P.W.1 stated that the claim was for Ksh.4 million but came down as there was credit on Defendant side.
The statement of Solomon Mwema states that between 20.3.2008 and 17.4.2008 the Defendant ordered tires and tubes works worth Ksh.4,157,608/92.



Page Title: Tanzanians beg for answers on commissions of inquiry

Page URL: https://www.thecitizen.co.tz/tanzania/news/tanzanians-beg-for-answers-on-commissions-of-inquiry-2494858

Page Summary:
Public frustration is growing over numerous commissions and task forces formed in recent years to investigate matters of public importance but failed to give timely and conclusive findings.
Among the incidents that prompted authorities to form commissions of inquiry is the last year’s abduction and torture of Dr Stephen Ulimboka, the brutal attack of chairman of Tanzania Editors Forum Absalom Kibanda and massive failure of in the 2012 Form Four examinations.
In 2008, for instance, a commission was formed to investigate the collapse of a 10-storey building at Mtendeni Street in Dar es Salaam.
So many other commissions whose reports have never been made public have formed in several incidents.
The police form probe committees but the finding are not forthcoming.



Page Title: Freedom of Press in Tanzania, “State to probe Mwangosi's death” ~ Jaba

Page URL: https://jabashadrack.blogspot.com/2012/09/freedom-of-press-in-tanzania-state-to.html

Page Summary:
Dr Nchimbi told journalists that the Special Committee has been given 30 days to probe the killing of the journalist and present him with a report.
Dr Nchimbi said that so far no one has been arrested in connection with the killings of the journalist.
Dr Nchimbi said he is surprised that IGP Mwema has not brought in Dr Slaa for questioning in connection with his text message and the consequent death of the journalist.
Mr Mnyika also called for immediate resignation of police officers who are directly connected with the incident.
Mr Mnyika further alleged that Mwangosi was killed deliberately because in the early hours of Sunday, he had quarrelled with the Iringa Regional Police Commander.



Page Title: Habarileo

Page URL: https://habarileo.co.tz/habari/state-to-probe-mwangosi-s-death.aspx

Page Summary:
Dr Nchimbi told journalists that the Special Committee has been given 30 days to probe the killing of the journalist and present him with a report.
Dr Nchimbi said that so far no one has been arrested in connection with the killings of the journalist.
Mr Mnyika reiterated that the government should employ the Inquest Act of 1980 which forms the Coroner Court that is responsible of probing deaths that are caused by bizarre circumstances.
Mr Mnyika also called for immediate resignation of police officers who are directly connected with the incident.
Mr Mnyika further alleged that Mwangosi was killed deliberately because in the early hours of Sunday, he had quarrelled with the Iringa Regional Police Commander.



Page Title: Tanzania bans weekly Raia Mwema tabloid for 90 days

Page URL: https://www.theeastafrican.co.ke/tea/news/east-africa/tanzania-bans-weekly-raia-mwema-tabloid-for-90-days-1374348

Page Summary:
By THE CITIZEN More by this AuthorTanzanian government has banned another weekly tabloid, Raia Mwema, for 90 days.
Through a statement issued by the Director of Information Services, Dr Hassan Abbas, said the government had banned the tabloid for publishing an article titled ‘Uraisi Utamshinda John Magufuli’(John Magufuli’s presidency doomed to fail).
The government’s decision comes barely 10 days after it banned weekly tabloid Mwanahalisi for two years.
AdvertisementRaia Mwema Board Chairman Jenerali Ulimwengu has confirmed the ban, maintaining the decision was made in reference to an article published on Wednesday.
“We have been told that, the reason for the ban was our Wednesday’s story and others which were published in 2013.



Page Title: Tanzania: Authorities Suspend Raia Mwema Newspaper for 1 Month

Page URL: https://allafrica.com/stories/202109160258.html

Page Summary:
Nairobi — Tanzanian authorities should immediately rescind the suspension of the Raia Mwema newspaper and cease banning media outlets, the Committee to Protect Journalists said today.
In that statement, he accused Raia Mwema of repeatedly breaking the law and violating professional journalism standards through misleading reporting and incitement.
"Tanzanian officials should drop their suspension of Raia Mwema and ensure that all newspapers can report the news without fear of suspensions and bans."
Msigwa, a presidential appointee who is also in charge of Tanzania's Information Services Department, which licenses newspapers, said in his statement that Raia Mwema broke the law in three separate reports.
Raia Mwema also asked why the party itself did not file a complaint.



Page Title: Habarileo

Page URL: https://habarileo.co.tz/habari/regional-blocs-join-forces-in-fighting-crime.aspx

Page Summary:
Mr Mwema noted that Tanzania decided to include the resolutions in the strategic plan to improve the police force in the country.
Responding to questions from journalists yesterday, Mr Mwema said when the time comes, those tasked with leading investigations into various cases will give reports to the press.
This includes the arrest of two police officers in Mara Region for allegedly possessing 17 pieces of elephant tusks.
Five police officers are being held in connection with theft of 150m/- that disappeared during the Kariakoo robbery.
Mr Mwema was also quoted remarking that no stone will be left unturned until all untrustworthy police officers were sacked from the force.



Page Title: EPA scandal dominated 2008, shook Kikwete

Page URL: https://www.theeastafrican.co.ke/tea/news/east-africa/epa-scandal-dominated-2008-shook-kikwete--1293244

Page Summary:
These findings were that Tsh133 billion ($133 million) had been stolen by 22 firms through the EPA sovereign account during the financial year 2005/06.
Backed by the auditors’ findings, which confirmed financial irregularities in the EPA account, the president sacked the then BoT governor, the late Dr Daudi Balali.
The government opened the EPA account to check the swelling import bill.
The tripartite team confiscated properties belonging to some EPA suspects and also started to recover alleged misappropriated funds.
Last August, President Kikwete received the tripartite report, promised to decide on it within “a few days.”



Page Title: Police to investigate Mwanza RPC killing ~ Jaba

Page URL: http://jabashadrack.blogspot.com/2012/10/police-to-investigate-mwanza-rpc-killing.html

Page Summary:
Written by DASSU STEPHENTHE Inspector General of Police (IGP) Said Mwema has pledged thorough investigation to circumstances that led to the killing of Mwanza Regional Police Commander (RPC), Liberatus Barlow.
MWANZA Regional Police Commander (RPC), Liberatus Barlow (55), has been shot dead by suspected bandits on Friday night.
Mwanza Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Evarist Ndikilo, said the incident happened at around 1.00 pm at Kona ya Bwiru area near a hotel known as Taifive.
Reliable sources say Mr Barlow was heading home after attending a wedding preparation meeting of his nephew at Florida Hotel in the city.
The police officials in the region have not issued any formal statement regarding the killing of the RPC.



Page Title: Tanzania: Stop the on-going mutilation of girls and women in the Tarime district

Page URL: https://www.equalitynow.org/tanzania_stop_the_on_going_mutilation_of_girls_and_women_in_the_tarime_district?locale=ar

Page Summary:
Send letters to:His Excellency Jakaya Mrisho KikwetePresident of the United Republic of TanzaniaOffice of the PresidentP.O Box 9120Dar-es-Salaam, TANZANIATel Office: +255 22 211 6679 or +255 211 0972 or +255 22 211 6538Personal Mobile: +255 754 777 777Fax: +255 22 212 8585 or +255 22 211 3425Email: [email protected]Hon.
Box 3021Dar- es-Salaam, TANZANIATel: +255 22 211 6798, +255 22 232 4904Hon.
Office: +255 22 211 3461Personal mobile: +255 754 785 557Fax: +255 22 213 6556Email: [email protected], or [email protected], or [email protected]Hon.
Sophia Mathayo SimbaMinister of Community Development, Gender and Children's AffairsPO Box 3448Dar-es-Salaam, TANZANIATel: +255 22 213 2057 +255 22 211 5074; +255 22 211 5635Fax: +255 22 213 3647Email: [email protected]Hon.
Box 2218Dar-es-Salaam, TANZANIATel: +255 22 211 7108, +255 22 213 36322, +255 22 211 2034; +255 22 211 7353Fax: +255 22 212 2617, +255 22 213 9675Email: [email protected]; [email protected]Mr. Z. MunisiAssistant Superintendent of PolicePolice headquarters- Gender DepartmentFax: + 255 22 213 1174Dar-es-Salaam, TANZANIA



Page Title: Government slaps Raia Mwema with a 30-day ban

Page URL: https://www.thecitizen.co.tz/tanzania/news/government-slaps-raia-mwema-with-a-30-day-ban-3538632

Page Summary:
The government on Sunday September 5, banned publication and distribution of a local weekly tabloid Raia Mwema, for 30 days.
“With the powers vested in me under section 9 (b) of the Media Services Act No.
The Office of the Director of the Information Services Department believes that the punishment will give them an opportunity to mend their ways of operation.
In addition, the statement stated that if Raia Mwema was not satisfied with the punishment in accordance with Section 10 (1) of the Media Services Act No.
Efforts to reach the Raia Mwema Board Chairman, Mr Jenerali Ulimwengu, proved futile as his phone was not available.



Page Title: Tanzania suspends newspaper for one month

Page URL: https://rsf.org/en/news/tanzania-suspends-newspaper-one-month

Page Summary:
As evidence of its claim, the newspaper published past photos of the killer wearing the colours of Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM), the party that has ruled Tanzania ever since independence.
A few weeks before that, she also pledged to lift sanctions against media that had been targeted in the past.
“This newspaper’s suspension is a complete contradiction of the new president’s promises,” said Arnaud Froger, the head of RSF’s Africa desk.
“It’s no different from the arbitrary and excessive sanctions imposed during the years that her predecessor, John Magufuli, was president, a period marked by an unprecedented decline in press freedom in Tanzania.
Tanzania is ranked 124th out of 180 countries in RSF's 2021 World Press Freedom Index, having fallen a total of 53 places from 2016 to 2020 under President Magufuli, more than any other country in recent years.



Page Title: Editors in Tanzania urged to avoid hateful news - Xinhua

Page URL: http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2018-04/13/c_137107007.htm

Page Summary:
DAR ES SALAAM, April 12 (Xinhua) -- Tanzanian National Assembly Speaker Job Ndugai on Thursday urged the east African nation's editors and media owners to be careful and avoid publishing hateful news about parliament, its leaders and Members of Parliament.
Ndugai said editors should be very careful in their duties and stop playing around with parliament, one of the pillars of the state.
In his point of order, the MP argued that the article written by one Pascal Mayalla and published in Raia Mwema of April 9 had a story headlined -- Is parliament kowtowing to government?
The Speaker said the writer said most MPs did not know what they were doing in parliament and they were only there to get allowances.
Ndugai ordered the writer and editors of Raia Mwema to appear before the Parliamentary Privileges, Ethics and Powers committee to respond to allegations against them.



Page Title: Interpol to fund joint regional police effort

Page URL: http://www.ibn-tv.co.tz/2013/03/interpol-to-fund-joint-regional-police-effort/

Page Summary:
International Police (Interpol) has agreed to fund East and Southern Africa Regional police forces to establish joint operations in an effort to combat terrorism, human and drug trafficking and other cross border crimes plaguing the region.
The operations will be overseen by two regional crime fighting bodies, The Eastern Africa Police Chiefs Cooperation Organisation (EAPCCO) and Southern African Regional Police Chief Council Organisation (SARPCCO).
The meeting was attended by senior police officers from 11 African countries, Police Chiefs, Crime Investigation Directors and the Head of Interpol Regional Bureau –Harare, Chilika Simfukwe.
“…fighting cross-border transnational crime and contemporary criminal violence requires joint trainings and operations…,” he explained and underscored that it is for that reason that the joints efforts are been established.
He said among other things the operation will target both Interpol and Sarpcco priority crimes and he urged directors of CID to prepare adequately for the event.


